The term "floriculture" simply refers to the farming or cultivation of flowers, according to Taylor & Francis Group. The floriculture industry encompasses any activity that involves cultivating flowers for trade reasons, with the sole intention of commercializing the flowers and their products. The goal of this project was to create an AI-powered mobile-based information system that tackles the issues that Kenyan flower producers experience in regulating soil nutrients and moisture for Roses, Carnations and Lilies. The system used OOAD approach and Rapid Application Development methodology, leveraging development tools such as Android Studio, Firebase, TensorFlow, and the Java programming language. The system analysed soil nutrients, monitor soil moisture levels, and made individualized suggestions for rose, carnation, and lily flowers using data collected from dummy datasets, machine learning algorithms, and IoT technologies. The predicted outcome was a mobile application that improves decision-making, increases crop output, and optimizes resource utilization in the floriculture industry.
To aid in development, specific design diagrams were drawn. Once the system was developed, functional and integration testing was performed ensure the system met the required criteria. A test case table was created to visualize how different modules of the system were tested. 
The test accuracy of the model was 94%. 
The system was able to achieve most of its required functionalities.
Keywords: Floriculture, Roses, Carnations, Lilies, AI

